Anand Kumar, the founder of Super 30 said that education is the best bet to fight poverty and related issues. Education can help to eradicate discrimination and help to build an equal society on where the deserving people get awarded on the basis of merit. He spoke on this note on Tuesday in an education gathering held at the Cambridge University.

Anand said that this is an amazing experience to speak in the US-Asia summit organised by Cambridge University as a youngster, he aspired to study here but could not make it into for financial issues. He expressed that only because of his Education, he has stood there. He said that education is the only way to bring a silent revolution and has the potential to bring generational change.

Anand also told the gathering about the Movie which is made on his life struggles and how he helped students from an underprivileged background to crack into the IITs which is considered as the most prime technological institutes in India.

Anand Kumar has said that the difference between underprivileged and privileged is only a matter of opportunities. Many times, underprivileged students cannot excel in the national and international education landscapes because they are not given equal opportunity due to financial capabilities. He pointed out that some of his students who were previously identified as underprivileged are working with some top US-based engineering firms.

Anand said that Hrithik Roshan played his character in the film which shows his struggle and director Vikas Bahl took care of the most minute details to picturise the film.

Anand said that the state of Bihar from where he belongs once excelled in the field of education and the first universities of the ancient world were established there but over the course of time, it slipped down below the Index.

Also Read: Tea-Seller turned Teacher helping students in Odisha to crack NEET Examinations

Anand’s Super 30 initiative has provided help to more than 540 students over two decades who belonged from the underprivileged sections. Super 30 is a stalwart initiative that revolutionised education by bringing the Underprivileged children under mainstream education and nourished their dream of being successful.

In this year, Super 30’s 18 students cracked the JEE Advanced examination and are yet to take admissions in the IITs.

Also Read: Chauffeur’s son bags PG admission in IIM Ahmedabad

Super 30 since its inception has helped students belonging from farm labourer, a rickshaw puller, housemaid and other deprived sections to secure admissions in IITs.

Stay tuned to CollegeDekho for more News and Updates