The Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi (IIT Mandi) has come a long way since it started its journey in the year 2009 on 510 acres of grassland on the banks of the Uhl river in the Kamand village of Himachal Pradesh. It has been making quick impressive strides towards building a remarkable campus in the challenging but serene Himalayan layout.

IIT Mandi has a state of the art infrastructure which has a built-up area of 1.15 lakh square metres that consists of housing for over 1,300 students, 61 staff members, and 112 faculty members. It also has libraries, sports facilities, cutting-edge laboratories, spaces for other co-curricular and extra activities etc.

The campus of IIT Mandi also has a one-of-its-kind auditorium which has the seating capacity of 750 people and has already begun hosting events that attract experts from all over the world. The hostels are built with a unique design and large terraces and common spaces which is an additional perk for the students. IIT Mandi is all set to complete construction on an area of 2.15 lakh square metres by the year 2021 so that accommodation could be provided for 2,580 students and 270 staff and faculty members.

Also Read: JEE Advanced 2019: Check the Total Number of Seats in all IITs for 2019-20 Here

Professor SC Jain, the Dean of Infrastructure and Services at IIT Mandi, highlighted the modern infrastructure and said that they are on the way of creating one of the most beautiful and unique campuses in the country. The serene surroundings tempered with the best academic, residential, and institutional infrastructure has already set IIT Mandi on the path of emerging as a place that attracts the best minds from across the world.

A web-based project management tool is used by the Construction and Maintenance Wing of IIT Mandi which was developed by the students of the institute with an open-source platform for monitoring the progress of construction. An online Ticketing System is also used by the wind to manage maintenance services.

Also Read: JoSAA 2019 (IIT, IIIT, NIT Counselling) Seat Allotment Round 6 Results, Opening and Closing Ranks

IIT Mandi has established an advanced IT infrastructure which includes high-speed links of 1 GBPS capacity and more than 200 Wi-Fi access points. It has also created a High-Performance Computing Cluster with a total of 160 nodes based on 3,000 cores (that is CPU + GPU) and the growth of this is steady. Apart from these, IIT Mandi also has many future plans which they are soon to incorporate to make their campus one of the best premises in the country.