To promote positivity and create a better relationship between the Government, many Universities and other educational institutions are busy in establishing different social media cells that will be working towards bridging the students and the Ministry of Human Resource Development.

Through this gargantuan social media networking, the MHRD is aiming at bringing in positivity between the Government and the students. Keeping this in mind, the sources state that the different Vice-Chancellors of the educational institutions and the Universities have been directed to appoint a senior faculty member in the position of a Social Media Champion (SMC). The job of the SMC is to connect with the student on the three most prominent social media platforms, i.e. Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Along with connecting with the students, the SMC will be expected to post at least one positive story or event in a week to spread positivity amongst the students. B.Tech 

The Ministry of Human Resource Development chose Facebook, Twitter and Instagram as the preferred social media platforms where all the Universities and B.Sc. students will connect with the MHRD. The expectation is that the SMCs will be retweeting or reposting the positive messages and posts that take place in educational institutions across the country. This will ensure better awareness among the students moving forward.

Bachelor of Tech

MA


Also Read: MHRD Questions Falling QS Ranks of Top Universities

Sources state that a letter had been sent to the Higher Education Institutions in India at the beginning of the month, which mentioned the main objective of the venture being undertaken by the Government in association with the educational institutions in India. The objective, sources stated, is to connect each of the higher educational institutions that have been established in India with each other and share the different victories that they have received.added that The move will help in bringing transparency between the universities and establish a better environment between the teachers and the students.

Also Read: Jamia Millia Islamia Joins Instagram, Facebook and Twitter

As per sources, the letter has directed the all the elected officials, i.e. SMCs, to provide the required authority with the phone numbers that they use for WhatsApp, along with the email address and the Twitter handle by the end of the month, i.e. 31st July 2019.